# %websiteName%
----------

## Getting Started
Change the files in the `content` subdirectory from where Monorail is stored. Type in GitHub-flavored markdown.

You'll need to refresh ~2 times because of the ServiceWorker. It caches the majority of your site so that people can access it even when they're offline or your server is down.

## Configuration
All configuration lives in `config.js`, located wherever you downloaded Monorail.

### Site path and name

```javascript
const URL = '%URL%'
const name = '%websiteName%'
```
These are the things you'll want to change first for a production server. They are used for HTTPS redirects and page titles respectively.
Quick note on the `local.racklab.xyz` thing: this is here because it allows you to use a certificate that has already been signed by us, and the domain's pointed at `localhost`. Only use this if you're messing around or developing.

### Server port and type

```javascript
// Server type
// Should be any JS file under the servertypes directory, omit the .js
const servertype = 'basic'

// Port to listen on (If using SSL/HTTPS, set it to 443. Automatic redirects for port 80 will be set up.)
const web_port = 443
```
Server types are being phased out. Don't use them. Basically, they were intended to allow you to change into different 'loadouts' of code that the server would run on. With the Pivot project, this isn't required.

The web port should be self explanatory. No quotes needed when changing it.

### HTTPS and password protection

```javascript
// SSL
// Enter the full path.
const key = '/path/to/your/server.key'
const cert = '/path/to/your/server.crt'

// Password protection
const username = 'username'
const password = 'password'
```
Because HTTPS/TLS/SSL is used, you're going to need to provide a certificate and a key. It's okay to used self-signed keys and certificates for development or messing around. If you're using `local.racklab.xyz` for your site's URL, we'll have signed certs up soon.

In the future, you'll be able to force authentication to enter the site. Hence the username and password config options.

## Extensions
### Configuration
```javascript
const extensions = {};
```
These are the settings for installed extensions, which are installed in the `extensions` directory. 

[Extension Documentation](https://github.com/racklab/Monorail/wiki/Extensions!)

### Examples

#### datetime.js

As an example, an extension called simply `datetime.js` ships in every stock version of Monorail. 

It looks for a string in every webpage, `% datetime %` (ignore the spaces in between the percent symbols), and replaces it with the output from `new Date()` (try it in your browser's JS console!).

Here's the code:

```javascript
module.exports = function() {
  return [
    {
      priority: 'normal',
      /*
      Extensions priority:
      early (loaded and ran first, used when needing to skip sanity checks)
      normal (ran after early, should be used for extensions that modify content being served)
      late
      */ 
      matchPath: '/*',
      /*
      What URL the extension should be run on. An asterisk can be used for all of them (like above).
      */
      handle: function(res) {
        res.errCode = 200;
        /*
        What status code this extension should work on. We're using 200 OK for this one, as it's the 'everything is good to go' status.
        */
        res.body = res.body.replace('% datetime %' /* once again, do the spaces thing */, new Date())
        /*
        Actually defining the body now. 
        */
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

And here's what happens when it's loaded as an extension: %datetime% 

#### randomfile.js

Like the one showcased before it, it's included in every version of Monorail. Unlike it, this one defines a file.

What does that mean? It means that it serves a page generated by the extension when someone tries to visit the URL it 'owns'. [Try it!](/randomfile.md)

Here's the code:

```javascript
module.exports = function() {
  return [
    {
      priority: 'early', // we're defining a file, so bypass 404s
      matchPath: '/randomfile.md',
      handle: function(res) {
        res.errCode = 200;
        res.body = `${Math.random()}`;
        res.headers['Content-Type'] = 'text/plain'; // make it plain text
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
  


## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2017 [Racklab](https://github.com/orgs/racklab/people) & [the Monorail Authors](https://github.com/racklab/Monorail/graphs/contributors)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.